GAM 160
The game I am going to design is a puzzle game, in which the player will navigate around mini puzzles to, reach the end for the level. In each level, the player will need to rotate the land to pass the obstruction blocking the player such as trees and rocks. This game is a 2D game with core mechanics being the ability to turn the water left, right up and down. 
The player will be able to use the arrow keys to navigate and solve the puzzles and let the little river become a part of the great sea. In this game, I hope to achieve three levels all demon straight different levels of complexity within each puzzle. The first will be a simple level allowing the player to understand what the controllers the two levels are for this game and after that after will be much more complex. 
With this game concept, I am going to make a controller that is round, with a handle the player holds to turn the world in order to navigate the puzzle.
The movements will based on the turns the player makes with the controller e.g. if the player turns the device left or right this will turn the world in that direction allowing the water to navigate to the end. The design is similar to that of a curling stone, allowing the player to turn left, right or keep going forward. As shown from my mini diagram I would have the controller sit firmly on a base and then the player would place their hand on the bar and turn it in the direction they want the water to flow.
Underneath the holding bar, there will be a gap; this will allow the player to fit their hand around the controller safely. The games camera view will show the entire of the level from the start point and the ends. This will allow players to play the game ether in a ‘trial and error’ method or allow players to ‘observe a winning path’ and strategically plan there moves. There will be a death mechanic in this game, it will occur if the players have to go back onto themselves or hits an obstacle along the way. 
This will allow the player to feel more challenge from the game and, create a less liner approach to this game. To conclude, this game is going to be a 2D puzzle solving game, in which the player must solve the puzzles so that the stream can get back to the big ocean. Within this game, I will have many mechanics such as turning the world, having the player restart if they collide with themselves and intricate puzzle designs. When designing the controller, I want it to be rounded like that of a curling stone, allowing the player to turn and move the water into which ever direction they think will get them to the victory.
